feat(RHTAPWATCH-820): Document the Project-controller (#248)
redhat-appstudio/docs.appstudio.io: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/how-to-guides/proc_multiversion.adoc

= Managing multiple software versions

Software projects are often required to maintain multiple versions of the
software in parallel in order to support different users of the software with
different needs. As far as source code goes, the typical way to maintain
multiple versions is by using different Git branches. Using branches in
conjunction with Konflux can be somewhat tedious as a separate Component needs
to be defined for each branch and a separate Application needs to be defined
for each collection of components that need to be tested and released together.

The Konflux Project Controller seeks to streamline the process of managing
multiple versions by introducing the following objects and concepts:

- A *Project* is used to describe a major piece of software that can be worked
  on by multiple teams over an extended period of time. A project may contain
  one or more development streams.
- A *ProjectDevelopmentStream* indicates an independent stream of development.
  A *ProjectDevelopmentStream* can contain one or more *Applications* each
  containing one or more *Components*.

> - A described above, starting a new development stream involves creating a large

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As described above, starting a new development stream involves creating a large
```

  amount of  *Application* and *Component* resources. The Project Controller
  helps to streamline that by allowing to create a
  *ProjectDevelopmentStreamTemplate* resource that specifies the resources to be
  created and allows for using variables to customize them. Using a template,
  many similar development streams can be created quickly.

== Using the Project Controller

In the sections below we will describe how to use the custom resources
supported by the Project Controller to manage multiple software versions and
generate Application and Component resources.

=== Before you begin

> Its possible to have the Project Controller create all the Application and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's possible to have the Project Controller create all the Application and
```

Component resources you would need. It is recommended, however, for the first
time a particular repository is on-boarded, to do so manually via the Konflux
UI. That would help ensuring the right access credentials are in place as well
as that the Tekton Pipeline-as-Code files are committed to the repo.

When creating components the Project Controller assumes that:

- The default pipeline is not being used and that each branch in a component's
  repo contains the necessary Tekton Pipeline-as-Code files to build it.

> - Any credentials required to access the component repo had already bee

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any credentials required to access the component repo had already been
```

          url: https://github.com/ifireball/konflux-multibranch-sample.git
----

The *resources* section for the template may be created by looking at the YAML
for existing resources and copying it while removing generated and unnecessary
data and adding variable references where needed.

Here are specific examples for how to clean up and use the YAML for certain
resource kinds:

* For any kind of resource, the `namespace`, `creationTimestamp`, `generation`,
  `resourceVersion`, `uid` and `ownerReferences`, metadata fields should be
  removed as well as the `status` section.
* For *Application* resources the `metadata.name` and `spec.displayName` fields
  should contain variable references.
* For *Component* resources:
** The following annotations should be removed:
*** `build.appstudio.openshift.io/status`
*** `image.redhat.com/image`
** The `spec.containerImage` field should be removed.
** The following fields should probably contain variable references:
*** `spec.application`
*** `spec.componentName`
*** `source.git.revision`

Some notes about using template variables:

* You can use the https://pkg.go.dev/text/template[Go text/template] syntax to

>   place template variable  values into various resource attributes as well as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  place template variable values into various resource attributes as well as
```

  variable default values.
* You can use the custom `hyphenize` template function to create a value
  suitable for use in resource names.

> * Its a advisable to quote strings that contain variable references and other

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It's advisable to quote strings that contain variable references and other
```
